Video 175:
    as soon as we apply disdplay: flex to an HTML tag element, that tag becomes Flex container and all its children become flex item,
        - We have a Flex container
        - inside Flex container we have Flex Items

        - we have Main Axis and Cross Axis.


Flex box is a way to change how our elements should be displayed in the page:

How to use Flex box: 
        in the Element: 
            -display : flex --> that makes our element a Flex container.
                                so if we set display as flex in an item, item becomes a flex container, and every container needs children. as soon as we set display as Flex, we can set bellow values to the flex container and flex items/children

Properties that can be set to the:
    - Parent: or  Flex container
        - display: flex ,  inline-flex
        - Flex-flow:
        - justify-content:
        - align-content:
        - align-items:
    
    - Children: Flex Items
        - order:
        - flex:
        - align-self:
            

1) Parent: or Flex container

        Display : flex 

                in the normal HTML DOM, elements will be placed bellow each other,    when you set parent element to the flex, then child  elements seat right after each other, and the children also adjust their hight. When you resize the page, children try to maintain themselves with the width of the page.
                display:flex, we also automatically set two other property values
                flex-wrap: nowrap, and flex-direction: row


        display : inline-flex:
                Same as display:flex but children does not change their size when container element resized. hight would be adjusted with the most talled child.


        flex-direction:
            When you set display:Felx, you automaticaly applied flex-direciton : row

                row:            all items adjust to the left, all take one row, item
                                with no height, take the maximum height of its neighbours. 
                                items adjust to the top.

                row-reverse:    first child would be the last child in the row.
                                all items adjust to the right, all take one row item with
                                no height, take the maximum height of its neighbours.
                                items adjust to the top.

                column:         each item takes one row, adjust ot the left, items with
                                no width take the width of the parent element.

                column-reverse: first child placed on the last row each item takes one 
                                row, adjust to the left, items with no width take the width of the parent element.
        
                nowrap:         display:Felx, you automaticaly applied flex-wrap : nowrap
                                By default, a flex container will fit all flex items together. For example, a row will all be on one line. and if 6 flex items each has width of 25%, the display:flex will put all of them into one row/Main Axis. But if we set flex-wrap: wrap, 4 items will be seat next to each other, (width: 25%) and the next two flex items move to the next line. 
            
                wrap:           This means extra items move into a new row or column. The
                                break point of where the wrapping happens depends on the size of the items and the size of the container. 
                                

                wrap-reverse:   when children can not be placed in one row next to each other,
                                then last child in the row, will be moved to a new row on the top
                                all items adjust their hight to the bottom of the container element.

                
        Main-Axis       when flex-direciton is row, so the "Main-Axis" is from left to
                        right and the "Cross-Axis" is from top to the buttom
        Cross-Axis      if flex-direction: row-reverse, the "Main-Axis" is from right to
                        left and the "Cross-Axis" is from top to the buttom

                        when the flex-direction is column, the "Main-Axis" is from top to buttom and the "Cross-Axis" si from left to right, in Column-reverse, the "Main-Axis" is from buttom to top and "Cross-Axis" from left to right


        Align-items:    
            with the align-items, we move our items in the "Cross Axis"

                stretch:        Default value, items with no height, take the height of
                                the parent

                flex-start:     items align to the start of the flex container, Cross
                                Axis.
                                So if the flex-direction: row, The starting point is from top left corner of the container. Main Axis is from left to right
                                and Cross Axis od from top to bottom. Align-items moves items across the Cross Axis then flex-start places items to the top left of the container. 

                flex-end:       items align to the end of the flex container Cross Axis.
                                So if the flex-direction: row, Align-items moves items across the Cross Axis then flex-end places items to the buttom left of the container.  
                                
                center:         items align to the center of the flex container Cross
                                Axis, 

                stretch:        items align to the take whole height of flex container Cross Axis



        justify-content:    
            with the justify-content, we move our items along side of the "Main Axis"

                stretch:        Default value, items with no height, take the height of the parent

                flex-start:     items align to the start of the flex container, Main Axis.
                                So if the flex-direction: row, The starting point is from top left corner of the container. Main Axis is from left to right
                                and Cross Axis od from top to bottom. justify-content moves items across the Main Axis then flex-start move items to the top left of the container. 

                flex-end:       items align to the end of the flex container Main Axis.
                                So if the flex-direction: row, Align-items moves items across the Main Axis then flex-end places items to the top right of the container.  
                                
                center:         items align to the center of the flex container Main Axis, 

                stretch:        items align to the take whole height of flex container Main Axis

                space-evenly:   Across the Main Axis, justify items to have equal space 
                                in between.

                space-around:

                space-between:  first and last items, stick to the start and end of the main axis.
                                others have equal space betweem themselves.

            
        if we have a flex-direction: column, then our Main-axis is from top to buttom and Cross Axis is from left to right. So in this case the justify-content, adjust children across the main axis, which is the column. Then justify-contkey-features__list {ent: flex-end, adjust items to the bottom of the container.

        Sumarry:
                    with adding display: flex, we also add some default setting. flex-direction: row and flex-wrap: nowrap, and finally align-items and justify-content to stretch.
                    with flex-direction we can define Main-Axis and Cross-Axis. We can move items across main axis or cross axis with justify-content and align-items. 



2) Children: or Flex items

        in here we want to talk about the flex-items or the child of the flex container.
        so we assume that we have a parent element which its display: flex

        order: 
            0 or - or +
            order applied to the flex items and its default value is 0.
            so 0 means the flex items follow the DOM element hierarchy. which means the second element will appear second after the first element. if you want to jump end in a queue, set order: 1, so flex items with the higher order value, will be placed at the end of the queue, visa versa if you want to be first in the flex items, although you are not the first flex items in the DOM elements,
            add a negative value to the order. so flex items with order: -6 comes before evey other elements and before elements with oder bigger that -6.

        align-self:  
            This property allows you to adjust each item's alignment individually, instead of setting them all at once. 
            align-self accepts the same values as align-items and will override any value set by the align-items property.

        flex-shrink:
            it allows an item to shrink if the flex container is too small. Items shrink when the width of the parent container is smaller than the combined widths of all the flex items within it.
            The flex-shrink property takes numbers as values. The higher the number, the more it will shrink compared to the other items in the container. For example, if one item has a flex-shrink value of 1 and the other has a flex-shrink value of 3, the one with the value of 3 will become smaller three times as much as the other.

        flex-grow:  
            The opposite of flex-shrink is the flex-grow property. Recall that flex-shrink controls the size of the items when the container shrinks. The flex-grow property controls the size of items when the parent container expands.
            so flex-grow takes number, if two flex items has a different flex-grow, the one with the bigger value, growth in greater speed to takes the remaining space of the parent element. if flex-grow:0 then they did not grow and fixed to its defined width.
            if two flex items has felx-grow of 3 and 5, then remaining space of the parent element dvivided by the 8 and 3/8 goes to one flex items and 5/8 goes to the other. 


        flex-basis:
            The flex-basis property specifies the initial size of the item before CSS makes adjustments with flex-shrink or flex-grow.

            The units used by the flex-basis property are the same as other size properties (px, em, %, etc.). The value auto sizes items based on the content.
            flex-basis defines the size of the element in relates to the Main Axis. so if the Main Axis is Row, which means parent of the flex items has a flex-direction: row, and flex items has a width=350px. if we define flex-basis: 300px it means this flex item can shrink but not more than 300px. 
            as you know, the default value for flex-shrink is 1, so every flex items can shrink by default. 
            it is important to know that flex-bases also could be the height of the flex items, the parent element if the flex item ahs flex-direction: column then the Main Axis is Column and flex-basis in this case define the height of the element not the width like previous example with flex-direciton:row
            the default valud of the flex-basis is "auto" 


        flex:       
            this is the short hand form for flex-grow, flex-shrink, flex-basis
            flex: 0 1 auto is all short form for flex-grow:0, flex-shrink:1, flex-basis: auto
            

Aggregate:  display: flex set your html element as a felx container. also apply some
            style to container children. The default value for align-item:stretch and 
            justify-content: flex-start, flex-direction: row
            it is imporatant to understand the concept of Main vs Cross Axis
            with 
                flex-direction: row, 
                        Main-axis: left-right
                        Cross-axis: top to buttom
                flex-direction: reverse- row, 
                        Main-axis: r-leftight
                        Cross-axis: top to buttom
                flex-direction: column, 
                        Main-axis: top to buttom
                        Cross-axis: left-right
                flex-direction: reverse-column, 
                        Main-axis: buttom to top
                        Cross-axis: left-right

            justify-content: move you flex-items in Main-axis
            align-item:      move you flex-items in Cross-axis

            wrap: nowrap is a default value, and wrap all child in a main-axis or add another line of main axis, and move child in case of parent element resize

            some setting also can be set into the flex-item/child of the flex-container

            order: to change the default order of the child
            align-self, flex-grow, flex-shrink, flex-basis or short form of it, flex:



                  
                



